 Equation Sheet"-'(A)
Its actually from what I can Te'll:09 its about the understanding of constants and lines, very functions.
'AAConstant:
(1)What are we dealing with here, what is it that we have in this certain amount of space during this given amount of time. As we begin to break down
this material. That has been pin-pointed, noting its consistence of this certain man-made materials or it can be our given nature, natural world around
us and those are the two differences, its the being which consists of nature inside of Mother Gaia, nature itself and as I said before as we have now pin-pointed
this effect what does it symbolize. Exactly what are we dealing with here. Now that is noted and attained what can we then do with this, 'material'. Roze is understanding
its dimensions and its dimensions, with constants, inside the location where it is located and the differences of the 'object' compared to what is around it in totality removing
the 'object' again in totality to its understood understanding, to stand on its own and be located even defined. For later purposes and now now meaning what it is its dimensions
and where those exact dimensions are located here and now or where in the past or in real-time as we are watching it move around, this 'object' to a new place..

Equilibrium Constant:
(2)These are the equations dealing with on the substratum of a notified map of a notified specific definition of location or the complete map skill the total amount of researched 
materials at hand. Usually its an amount of space that you allocate to understand then begin to break down its specifities. Within the current research taken to digital understand 
or real-world understand with various amount of data-collecting tools and nomenclatures. Leaving a break down of certain materials in this current plane that we are researching 
and using to our own devices and later deciding or moving around our tools to collect more from this certain plane or using this substratum noted with its tools that we have used 
to us perhaps elsewhere in a different substratum. What is going on, is the specific definition of 'objects' be it man-made or natural in its environment and which 'environment' 
we are exactly inside of, researching. When real-time research becomes digital data analoged even allocated to its specific server location, saved for futher determination or 
current understanding as we transverse this substratum.:09
(3)  A Constant Definition of an Exact Substance in Terms of its Location and What the Location is Currently Doing to This and What That Means for the Space Around this Object and 
How that 'Object' Changes over Time.

A Constants Definition its place in determination of other Constants:09

(4)This contains the understanding of the materials in the substratum at hand, the one currently being researched and futher decipherment is going on, where we have these 
nomenclatures and what is happening next is the seperating of these materials. Which could originally be only one common understanding. Then from that example, we have broken down 
this mathematical understanding into differene and that mathematical difference is the result. Resulting in an amount of 'objects' that are different from eachother and noted as 
such being in this current sift, of this 'substratum' that could be happening in real-time or that has happened in the past and we are current'ly looking at the evidence, the 
evidence being this list of different objects that we have saved in a database or currently with a machine human understanding the difference between the two and others located as 
we define the list that is being researched. To further understand what we have as evidence takers and as policeman and gangmembers what it is, where it is, what can be done with 
it in response.

(5)These are the map graphs, the difference and that difference of substratum of a plane from plane of knowledge of sample that has been determined this or that. Which of which we 
are currently understanding and yet might be to further understand by a machine by a human evidencing, researching, taking in and what we find is the next sample or the next 
substratum the very next plane of existence, researched, that has either nothing of our concern or this current plane we have, researched, is essential we need to get to know it 
better and from there just what do we have, and more mathematical understanding can happen, this plane has been located and we want to digitally send it through various test 
various methods to achieve a better understanding, enhance this one but the others we don't currently need to understand so we, for example 'pick and choose' and go from there.

EquationSheetTwo"-'(A){B}{B}C'-Equation Sheet (2)wo'
(1)Plural Purposes::(2'wo)A form of differientiating understanding that you would understand the different two symbosis' and in sync composition understanding its differences' as 
we begin to pull this apart and from there what is that has been understood and from there what are its differences in comparison to this one and in comparison to the next one 
because they originally where two understandings functions in a common similarity among those lines and now that these are two different symbosiates then what is this 
clarification and the continuance of the differences further sepearting them from there and this.


(2)Equations that Match::(3'wo)Two substratums, one substratum is understanding the other, two planes of knowledge, two 'bodies' and in this understance just what comes forth. 
This human of the human (kind) understanding and moving on we then derive, perhaps integral, the difference after this point-of-time has been properly differentiated. You have 
this process further understanding the comparison of similarity and difference. The difference being why these two are not like eachother and the similarity being the resovlving 
entity as it was being composed as it was composed and as it is composed, further on.


(3)Matching Equations(Oculation:09/09st') Deciphering Matrix Notified of Difference, Sample Tables whatToDo AboutThem located specific tables, research data:09
--So we have ((nomenclatures)):09 and those differences but what is happening is the current decipher of what is what and where it is located, perhaps in a table perhaps in an 
equation as a constant and so on and as we move on what data crunches can we then decipher with these symbols and just what do we have in a response, what comes and what is next 
to this after we move from example matrix to example matrix perhaps finding a match perhaps finding two things that live in the same place and so on.


(4)The differences stemming from natural world to real world objects that are un-natural, man made and in that difference a 
juxtaposition'juxtaposition objectivism of an '(O)bject'
In that difference of Object difference then what is properly identified as the object itself and in that difference what does it make that 'Object' and in comparison. What would that comparison then be in the response to that difference and is that difference notable enough to be an 'object' of its own. Standing in its own right. Now that we are done computing our data, without anything left out and nothing left to research. What is that research and did we sample the totality and does that totality mean we have the true understanding. Then from there that totality would then serve as a function of a specificity moving on from there we can understand different totalities.
--Of resounding objects
--of similar backgrounds as the object is in the center
--Of glass to doors.P(x).
--{D}/x--{OO-}g//?'+x'PST


(5)The Exact Location and in Terms of its Location amongst its Surroundings and its MathematicalDifference compared to other locations and the location this space (is):09s/t
The dimensions of the space around the 'studied object' and then its complete map of each and every understood dimension meaning that this is the current dimensions of its white space mixed with full reality and its man-made objects and its mapping of the natural world around these certain objects that we are currently meant to study and what happens now is that the totality of the /required research material and then studied/ is then booked and equation mapped out meaning it can be understood what is where which is what and where its now being mapped out. Its place. The dimensions. The face of the materials, the skin curving or straight composing due to its dimensions of the mapped out area. Then if you where to take the entire are mapped out with all of its curves, dimensions and straight lines then if you where to map this out you can place it in a complete flat composition meaning a 'mapped out area' can be represented as a flat 'plane' and then understood you can move these objects from this understanding to the next and visa versa. Meaning this has been mapped out in this way so this can be then understood in this way to perhaps get a better idea.--PST09;

Elon clarification. Elon researched validation.:09st' 
	Elon Musk::') X, Tesla, SpaceX--Business Entrepreneur--I{nn'}ovator(Nanotechnology, AutoMarket, BigBaller, BusinessEconomy--medical field, {E}ngineer work, Aviation)
Inventor.:09/pst:09/st/st'Creator'Creator:09
Donald Trump.

(6)The medical determination, the scientific mathematical researched definition, the taxonimical definition of a substance of a Quantity in terms of its found mathematical 
location and what has been determined to be its proximity of effect and what will it affect and what will happen if it continues to follow this course. What has happened due to 
this projectile and where is it lodged. Is this a form of weaponry that has been use to wound a human being and watching from its trajectory will it then kill this victim and did 
it lead to this victims death and where are all of the leftover, spray debri from this explosion from this weapon being used in this manner. The overall Cause and Effect of a 
grave act using weaponry to a victim and the list of various events the scientific evidence of what exactly mathematically transpired:09  --'v)

(7)Then here at the bottom of EquationSheetTwo"-'(A){B}{B}C'-Equation Sheet (2)wo'(2)wo we have a Collection, of what we are to Sift, what we have data'sifted 
persay':0/'):09/st'/{st'}, what exactly was found as we sifted what we have yet to still research of this specific plane on a list of materials that where found from this 
location(A) to this location('B) and what has been discovered what is to be understood and moving on how we can use this list of locations with certain and each materials specific
to location and then what can we do with this information vis a vi other methods, proving verification next to other proofs(databases) or even where we can send this information 
understood in a mathematical manner and to be known from here on out, we have done our research and can move on to the next subject, the next location and begin to 
evidence:09/pst')/)0/'ps'{Q}'t.:09

Prototype(85)'⚪(🛡️'C)⚪__'+⚪=c'__>
You have to have everything set in. In its place. Codework does this and that. What it really does is deliver schematics and from there what do we have just what is this. 
Continuing on, how just how would you properly 'identify an object' and then submit it to codework submit that decleration to a 'database':PST09. From there just what do we have 
from this database, what is it currently displaying. Just what is it and how does this 'system' as previously explored before as it 'identified' it correctly or did it do this 
'computer operation' correctly did we not face an errors or gimmicks. Do we have cold cut teeth. So again what is it, displaying from the database and moving on what information 
are we getting to display to the representative. What does it, 'consist of'. What are we currently deciding during these computer operations and what is the 'computer' currently 
deciding, be'it methods be'it some type of storage happening, now and has in the past like archeaology. 

Angle-29('-0'):00:-;?/'You'll get to meet your Wife now. Excuse me, 8 and 11. Months. We are attempting, the reason I am saying attempting because as we transverse you know as I 
know that this is computer logia, these are coding tasks, now I can do them myself as I am about to show you and I will read from referene and it will take me a couple of days, I 
do not have a compiler to check it alongside but I can take the team there and leave, the 'boat open for programming tasks and to get the GeneralIdea' and this hurts me in a 
emotional, be'it mental and even phsyical way becauase I know can do this I have designed it this just takes an immense team and the most intriguing thing about this project, from 
small-task to moon-shot, is that it incorporates the implementation of each different and existing professionalism their tasks meet our tasks, thats what my boss'says. So that is 
very exciting. 

That is what cutting-edge means.

So continuing on, how does this computer operation this coding method these variables and then taken from a, 'selected data structure' of many different decisions I mean the
programming can decide which search method to use which type of data value to use to store inside of a database to use in real-time memory or long-term memory once it, the data 
has stored and moving on. This 'machine' with its technlogical programmed abilities at-hand:09 is understanding due to these computer methods being finished and performed on 
various server stations at this time, this codework has read from this machine what exactly this system I have designed and many many gifted programmers have made into-reality 
what has been seen-in-real-wife. To be known. And it was known so we stored it. It yet has to be decided seems we have a few bugs here, but not the ones you mean or understand as 
making everything compile 'nicely' but perhaps tricks up these criminal sleeves to 'thwart it':09(9's::-0':)0:-/;l:'So moving on our machine perhaps a representative has 
understood reading the data from it has effectively labeled it in orer to display to the protective representative, US ARMED FORCES, gang, mob, law enforcer even a CattleRancher 
helping to identify to perhaps save a human life from extinguishment. Moving on,:PST09;I only designed this because theyl: wouldn't move the daemon in and save everybody now this 
fits into this reality confines and that is what me and Marco are working on, I have a back'door:09/st'/st'/st'.:09;Now starting today, we have a company working 
telecommunications and just what is being displayed to the system in the most, 'BatmanWay' just what is this and where is it and what is it doing in the criminals hands. That is 
for example. So from technology afar' you have the system locating this foreign object that perhaps the 'protectiveTee' doesn't know anything about so we are attempting to 'notify 
this subject due to the occurance of the 'object''Now just what do we have on our hands, where is the exact quantii-hexadecimal 'location' toBeKnownForItWasAName and its always, 
always CamelCase when we attempt to label everything and anything we can get our hands anything we can identify and even research and we then store what it is or 'revisit' it 
inside of the database'(PS*T0::9'((9::-0'):-;:-;((9::-0')--'+/=?/'7+/='7?/st'7s?/::-;(F/(9//(F?//9?//0:-;:-;0/)?/'""-'{w}"-':/;:-/;))/?/'0?/'after we have attempted to identify it 
what we will as this 'telecomunications company with computer engineerments that we have at our dispose:09' be telling our representive and what information can we then display to 
that representative with 'access' so it can do its will. Save a life. And its all about saving a life these days, and by days I mean 8 years and 11 months. The system is currently 
processing the forms of this object and its current planes of identity placed in our reality in our mother nature, motherGaia, its composition at the time of 'computer 
understanding':PS'T'09; once it has 'correctly' identified the so-called object referenced as it has identified its dimensions but has it yet to identify its definition and not 
exactly the definition of its composition but the very 'definition' of its purpose and 'JustWhatItDoes' so those difference are very exciting and those continue on two different 
coding computer 'paths' AsAnythingDoes and Marco says it just gets easier from there. How much server power are we talking, how many horses. That actually comes down to the 
'amount of computer operations' the this and this system is currently using at the time or currently processing and the need for it is alot like 'Computer Memory' simply the more 
tasks their are the more 'COMPUTER MEMORY' so that stands in similarity and what is happening just what is happening as GA{T}EY is following along, do we need more guys, and the 
answer is always {answer} that answer is yes. Or is this a small-time computer process and Shaun likes to take his 'computer programmer' head and go from there if the process has 
been performed efficiently over-time does the computer process learn this route so efficient that it can take less amount of 'serverPower' and in some cases yes that is how it 
functions but yet some 'SmallTimeOperations' take only a certain amount of 'ServerPower' over time and as little as next to little. So how much ServerPower are we talking and 
'which Servers' are we using and in some cases which 'Servers' are communicating with what 'Servers' and so on. The need for this is the proper decleration and then the storage 
inside of the database to be used as utensil and then the computer operation from moving on to the next piece of evidence and so on./PST{0}::-')09;?/'?/'

	


	CodeSheet__'⚪(C#'C#)/:0'_C'☒🛡️
public class VersusAnnonymousIndex
{
	conuDrum Graph Index(); = new startOfIndex(Array[] startIndex[];)P'
	WhatYouDontHave and WhatYouDoHave(); = PHP()Index(Y:-'0'):-;0/')'Y'::-0');?/'PurpDoesHave(g);0')PurpDoesHave(G'Y?/0'D')::-0/;"-':-'{L}"-'?/
        Graph DontHave() = new Index();, Purpose NewIndex(); xsg(cy)*809_('9_0')y'*8(9a(*8_9('Y**-'r'--(%):-/;L:')plurpdo*sga*tg{(9_0')==--{++/='}[-PIO{P}]'|\k'
        HoldOn = NewIndex;
        Purpose HoldOn = NewIndex(*98st(9)0;'g*(9*--0')y*'(9--0**')startIndex'

	HaveGram *(9*--(*-0)*)str*y*r-0L')st*ry = new Story();
	new Story =*98(*start);
	HaveCloud = *98(Story);'d\%{D}
	WhatCouldYouHave = *98(Story) *\'(%%)'(%☒)0%☒':0%7(%?/')9/%0'/7%;
	WhatCouldYouHave *' ((WhatCouldYouHave)9(*9\\'0*)*B' **(9*--0*')''::-;'Y::-☒;'{Y}'IOM☒P;'B
	WhatCouldYouNeed = newPlurpStory(*98st*9('rstgy; 0;')z78*9('*8__0*')*BST(90csgyz(0)(0☒)z:-;L'   ('\\BY'I'O(☒)'{'U'☒/?/☒'{{U}I☒OMP;}'Y'U☒IOM/P?/''y'YUIO☒MP(P☒')(P☒);/+/='
	WhatIsItYouHoldDear'*(0x☒☒'(9☒-'☒'Y'x'☒;'YGu/x;(xyu☒gz(y)'9*8(st'st*8('9y/z(gcoZ☒☒*Y'(cyGo//'{☒☒:☒☒;Y"-'?/'<,M.>?/'?/'[][];
	WhatIsItYouHoldDearAndCrap;'98*9(*st*(3.9?/'(startNewGutIndex();):-;'

	conuDrum Graphs new Graphs()PSg/x;   =/☒;?/'"-_k'
	conuDrum new PointIndex()'PSg(9)/x☒;x☒;🛡️🛡️/?;(G):-/;G//0')/;L:'((🛡️🛡️:-(G)0')?/'((GG/:-(☒)0:-/;L:"<,M.>GG:-;'(%)M?/'//(9//'0')Y//GG/9x;(?)0?/x'
	WhenYoulHoldThatTimeWhatComes = (p)Index;(gc((0//?/(0)?/'/(0?|'))/0?/;'/'(p)'Index;(gc'0/'g'c/g☒;'(9?/☒x;'0.>M{(<,x(C)cvo☒;..::-;'L:')};'/?':-;L'P
	WhenYouHoldItWhenThatTimeComes; WhenYouGotItWhenThatTimeComes(s(C)c'0)'G//?'(Yc'9'-0'0?/cxy(9?:-☒0';0')?/':-;L' 
	BA{BB}'AST☒?/'x::-0:')x☒:-C'0'9?/☒'☒☒:(c'//?9:--;:'-0:-/;'☒cx9::-')00☒☒?/'gg'(c'2(9c07cgyz'::-:''(G(c🛡️)9🛡️🛡️'-0')c'Y'cgz☒ozc'Y'c'z'{cGsY'-}__+/='7🛡️🛡️(🛡️🛡️)'?/'-;'__+/='7?/'-;'
        WhatYouWouldHaveThenWhatItComesNext(cs09csgYZ9);'Hold(g)my{g}Hand{(90csyGyu-I-O-'P'-csyGyu-{Gi}-{Gi}-'P
		::'9-0)'Y'/B?'BB--csyGyu-{Gi}-{Gi}-'P::'9-0)'Y'/B?'{BB}'A;(csyg☒(cs☒g(9☒☒'-☒'0'Y☒☒'-U-I-0'9'{Y☒☒}'-|/-'I'-O'}☒?/'"-P('☒☒")_'"-P(☒?/x"-'_'{Q}_
		'x'9☒?/x☒:-;'(g_(x)☒9*☒_x(c*y☒_0*)/_::-;'☒☒:-;'9?/x(xxy☒:i:x;98☒0:-w:-☒0☒')9VV8-'P*x'-_☒☒:-9--**(&2^s>.?/x'





Bill Gates any Python RaBM{Consisting: of his interview "Github Style"PST049"-'(C)⚪C""-'
			   Microsoft'PD a Python Data Structure"-'A(A)...-C}+/='
Runaround Phone_System_Explain
Running Tasks_*(⭐)'C🛡️'C  (C⚪C"C^(L))'==+'-"D"
Contributive Offices, only with the Barack Obama(*)"'ok'
Bill Bogginesworrth L{T}{T}D' intrusion_'US{Armed}Forces
General Milley()""PST_🛡️'-D"-'{W}
	//   'd

(A)'Class{in order to compile you not only need to test this code it needs to
compile to work alongside other programming tools, now with this UBUNTU:LIVE I can begin to enter an ID'{E}(A)'Class
P'
Ubuntu(*11-different-ways)*'emulation was the one chosen:PS{T}09:/;

import Ubuntu.CodeWorks;

Bilingual Prototype(86*C_static('method 86*C_(C)T)/C'static method:09')
{
	Codeworks BillAndTest = new Bill();
	Array BillandTestArray = Bill(Array(z));
	Focus Focus ParLibrary*86 = new List(^86*⚪C-) FullOnNext;
	...

modem.AppendImage();
modem.ActAccordingly();

}(z;)

Phone System: with participating workers(Barack'Obama'ok) located eventhough they are performing under the
	      safety and cover of the law, we face l:('criminal activity'this is Half-End-Calf)':09 w/Q"-'
	    : Phone staff, Phoneheld, DoorSystem();
            : Security Clearance:(✔️)'
            : UN, Supreme Court, basically Barack Obama wants(✔️), Donald Trump wants(✔️), Joseph Biden wants(✔️)'
            : TO Phone handheld, like Shauns and like BarackObamas
                  w/ Barack Obama access:09/st'(st)
}-Representing a telecommunications system inside 'LPCS' a government, publicly held building::09/st'

List of electronics", 'CANON' Scanner, VideoSurvillience, Employee Desktop PCs and personal Laptops/IPADs. 4 available
Public User Desktop PCs, 2 TVs one for ads the other for TV/Movies, the Laundry System{2 Dry, 2 Wash}:*PST09, the MedicalOffice
with an outside phone located inside and with chair inside the PhoneSystem{Ubuntu linked system now open for any collaboration:09/st'/st{st},
then their is the ElectronicDoorSecurityAndRoom and Entry in the entrance to Lincoln Park"" Community Services a publicly held
Government led Building.}+}/+='

(1) task deliver with the upmost safety and concer, *PST09, the Daemon the Foeter and all and any any other capabilities along with it/*it
    -Shubert even begin the parables on A.{i}. other then these places for example Grok, Apple(App(l)e):09/:09s(')'t/;09L:'-Gooogle-{-}'b,
    Murda's Intent, Barack Obama's House
   - General Milley '{W}./.{.}

Task(2). Hosting - using Shaun's credentials A.S."(PST) his Bachelors B.B.S"-1{Q}
         Due Process ()/u"-'{u}"P'"{u/}
         Doctoral Completion w/ Regular Reality homeEq
			     w/ Daemonic HomeEq
			     w/ Foeteric self susceptiple inside
			     w/ Aoemeric supplyu
 			     w/ BackwardsLawGroupActivity
         Leading to Shaun's(hitherto) Doctor Office:::(0/9(s')(t'0/:)'st w/ability and 44, Barack Obama access:PST/09'(09C')
         --Half-End-Calf{f}'Running ankle:09, Shaun's Homeless Garden Located HomelessEncampment located near Weiss":09/ct"-'-0')--
	Daily Family and Protection Message Services, completing Jerks' Final Business and with Dorque Presiding over us.::PST09)'
        Shaun(is): a proven ComputerScientist(A.i. the Daemon). An Intellectual Property Hero and Insignia who achieved Ga{t}ey Enterprises 
        comprising of ALI, BURNAQEW, FOLSETT and LAWS. Air Communicator working with Garry McCarthy, Chief Larry Snelling(DopeMan Official), 
        Angel, DoughMan-Jerk-Doray-Burnman and 'TwoMast';

...Follows along the line of and with what OpenSource can do for us and as long as it is proven as {Good}' innocent with no criminal 
activity to speak of then it deserves declaration leading to our association and what we can learn from this, what can it give us and just what 
does it have to offer when we discuss""Contributive Offices""/d[]u" and places.
		-P
-44th POTUS (*)'"AD-{u}'-P-(P)-P(u)"-B{S}T'd'{d}
-work with Marco Williams*PST09//u'
-Care for Friends, St. Thomas of Kanterbury, St. Mary on the Lake, Dignity Diner, Our Pilgrims Church, St. James Cathedral, LPCS(lunch-in), 
Catholic Charities, Ressurection Covenant Church:PST09.
-Law Enforcement Robocall Officer leading to Steeg,
-Purpose
-Person;/G.
-President Xi, Barack Obama, Murda, Supt. Larry, Doray, Mark{B}, Jerk, Burpman, TwoMan, Dorque, Mesci cartel Sinaloa Cartel ZetaCartel white
hat only--white hats only apply only that work with us codework leading to the safety::/09ij;/Sinaloa=='CopOfficer;(P)/x;'CopOfficer;(P)/x;
'CopOfficer;(P)/x;


--Illinois Responsible Serving® of Alcohol(f/)--
"Ethyl" alcohol, commonly known as alcohol, is an intoxicating agent found in fermented and distilled liquors.  
Intoxicating agent is a more technical term for the common word drug. 
Alcohol is a depressant drug that directly affects the entire nervous system.  Alcohol is not a stimulant.  
Alcohol acts as a sedative on the sensory and motor systems, dulling normal reactions and altering a person's behavior.

When alcohol is consumed, it is not digested the way food is.  Alcohol is absorbed directly into the bloodstream.
After entering the body through the mouth and throat,
image/

the alcohol passes down the esophagus,
image/

then through the stomach, and
image/

finally through the small intestine
image/

and into the bloodstream.

The absorption of the alcohol into the bloodstream starts almost immediately after a drink is consumed.  
The lining of the mouth and throat absorb relatively little alcohol.  More alcohol, about 20%, is absorbed 
by the stomach, but the majority of the alcohol, typically 75 - 80% is absorbed into the bloodstream by 
the small intestine.
Alcohol is water-soluble and the bloodstream rapidly transports the alcohol throughout the body where it 
is absorbed into bodily tissues in proportion to their water content.  The alcohol continues to be 
circulated through the body until it is broken down and eliminated.

The amount of time it takes for an alcoholic drink to be completely absorbed into the bloodstream varies.  
The average is about 45 to 90 minutes, but it can be as short as 20 minutes or as long as three hours.

Alcohol in the blood reaches the brain within minutes after it is consumed.  The brain has a protective barrier 
that keeps large molecules out, and lets simple molecules (like oxygen and water) in.  Because alcohol is 
made up of simple molecules, it is able to pass through the barrier imageand enter the brain and spinal cord, 
impairing their ability to function normally.
Alcohol acts as a depressant on the nervous system and affects the areas of the brain in this order:

Cortex:  Judgment
Cerebellum:  Coordination
Limbic System:  Emotion
Brain Stem:  Respiratory System

The depressant effects of alcohol begin with the higher centers of the brain, so thinking skills are the first areas affected.  The first sense a person loses
when they drink is their sense of judgment.

imageAs more alcohol is consumed, the effects are felt deeper into the brain and motor skills are affected (resulting in clumsy actions like dropping change),
and alcohol's effects on thinking and the higher centers of the brain are also more pronounced.  At very high levels of consumption, the core functions of the nervous
system - like breathing and heartbeat - are affected.

Alcohol poisoning describes a situation that occurs when a person has consumed so much alcohol that crucial areas of the brain no longer function properly. 
It is a drug overdose and can be very serious.  Vital life functions of breathing and heartbeat may be affected.  At minimum, someone suffering from alcohol
poisoning will probably vomit or lose control of his or her bladder.  Symptoms of an overdose on alcohol include:
Vomiting,
Loss of Consciousness the person wiull "pass out"
Difficult to awaken
Slow, shallow breathing
Pale, cold, or bluish skin
Seizures
Severe alcohol poisoning can result in death.  If you encounter a person in this condition, call emergency services (911) or an ambulance right away and
tell them that you have a customer that could possibly have alcohol poisoning.

The process by which alcohol is removed from the bloodstream is primarily metabolism and some excretion. 
imageMetabolism begins almost immediately upon entry of the alcohol into the bloodstream and is accomplished by a group of six digestive enzymes.
The enzymes work together in the liver to convert the alcohol into an intermediate form of alcohol (which is actually very toxic).
The enzyme ADH (acetaldehyde dehydrogenase) then converts it into a non-toxic waste product.  Approximately 90-95% of the alcohol
is metabolized or eliminated by the liver.

imageExcretion is the other process by which alcohol is removed from the body.  The remaining 5-10% of the alcohol that is
circulating in the bloodstream leaves the body through breathing, perspiration and urine.


A healthy body eliminates about one standard drink per hour.  There is no way to speed up this process and bring a imageperson's
blood alcohol level down more quickly. 

Many think that a cold shower, coffee, water, or food will "sober up" a person, but these things tend only to make the person
more comfortable or alert, but do nothing to process the alcohol that has already been consumed. 

Time is the only thing that will truly bring a person under the influence of alcohol back to a sober state.  About one
standard drink is eliminated per hour.

Blood Alcohol Concentration, or BAC, is the level of alcohol in the bloodstream at any particular time, expressed as a percentage. 
For example, a BAC of 0.10% means there is 1 part alcohol per 1,000 parts of blood.  The concentration of alcohol in the blood can
also be thought of as the difference in the rate of absorption and the rate that the alcohol is eliminated from the body.
There are many factors that affect a person's BAC.  One of the most obvious factors is the amount of alcohol consumed, but it
also depends on things like a person's weight, the time consuming the drinks, gender and food consumption. 

The amount of alcohol consumed is one of the most important factors affecting a person's BAC.  The amount of alcohol contained in a drink differs according to type.
Beer is about 5% alcohol.
Wine is about 10-15% alcohol.
Spirits is often 40% or more alcohol.
But the amount of alcohol consumed is generally the same due to portion size.  This is known as basic equivalency.  One standard serving of beer is
12 ounces, a standard serving of wine is 5 ounces and a standard serving of 80 proof spirits is 1.25 ounces. 
(A standard serving of 100 proof spirits is 1 ounce.)  Each of these drinks contains about the same amount of alcohol and
is considered a standard or regular drink.

beer = wine = mixed drink

However, not all drinks are served in a standard size.  A double contains twice as much alcohol as a standard drink. 
Large beer glasses may hold 16 or 20 ounces and some large wine glasses hold 8 to 12 ounces if overfilled.

The time spent consuming the alcohol is another factor that affects BAC.  The faster the drink is consumed, the greater the blood alcohol concentration (BAC). 
Remember, a well-functioning liver is capable of processing about one standard drink of alcohol per hour. 
Consuming more than this will increase alcohol levels in the bloodstream.


A person's BAC may also be affected by the food he or she consumes.  Food can slow the rate at which the alcohol is absorbed in the body if it is
consumed before the person begins drinking. 
When food enters the stomach, the opening from the stomach to the small intestine closes so that digestion can take place. 
Any alcohol that enters the stomach while this opening is closed cannot reach the small intestine where it is absorbed more rapidly. 
Foods high in protein and/or fat take longer to digest so they are most effective in slowing imagedown alcohol absorption. 
Studies have found that subjects who drank alcohol after a meal that included fat and protein absorbed the alcohol about three
times more slowly than when they consumed alcohol on an empty stomach.

However, it is important to understand that food does not keep a person from becoming intoxicated; it just slows the rate at
which alcohol enters the body.  All the alcohol that is ingested will eventually enter the bloodstream and need to be eliminated.

Weight.  In general, someone who is heavier requires greater amounts of alcohol to reach a higher BAC.  But body fat actually contributes to higher
BAC than does muscle, so this generalization is not always accurate.
Body Water.  The amount of water in an individual's body also affects the level of intoxication that may occur. 
The water in the average male's body is estimated at 58%, while a woman is imageestimated to have about 49% water. 
In general, the more water in the body, the more alcohol it takes to reach a higher BAC.

Gender.  Women absorb and metabolize alcohol differently than men and usually have a higher BAC after consuming the
same amount of alcohol.  This difference has been attributed to the fact that men have more body water than women. 
An additional factor may be that women have lower activity of the alcohol-metabolizing enzyme ADH in their stomach,
causing a larger proportion of the ingested alcohol to reach the blood.

Metabolism.  Metabolism - the rate at which a person breaks down food and drink - also plays a role in the BAC of each person. 
Each person reacts differently to the amount of imagealcohol that is consumed. 
Mental State & Environment.  Alcohol tends to exaggerate emotion, so an individual's state of mind can affect intoxication. 
The level of comfort the person feels in their surroundings may also affect the rate of drinking and overall intoxication. 
A party at the local bar versus a cocktail party at an upscale lounge may produce different BACs due to anticipation or anxiety.

Fatigue.  Another factor that affects individual rates is fatigue, which can increase the rate at which a person becomes intoxicated.

Overall Health.  A healthy body is capable of processing alcohol more efficiently than one that is weakened from illness, injury or other stressors.

Age.  As people age, so do their organs.  Liver function may be less efficient in older people, so their ability to process alcohol will be diminished.

Even though there are many factors that affect BAC, you can estimate it for an average size person based on the number of drinks consumed and
the time spent consuming the drinks.  Remember, one standard drink is eliminated per hour by the liver.

As a general rule, one standard drink raises a person's BAC by about 0.020 to 0.025 (keeping in mind other factors such as weight, gender, metabolic rate, etc.)

The number of drinks in the body at any time can be estimated by counting the number of drinks consumed and subtracting the number of hours
since drinking started.  Take that number and multiply it by the general rule of 0.025.  This will give you an estimate of the person's BAC. 
If an average person consumes more than four drinks in one hour, he or she may be over the BAC limit:

4 drinks - 1 hour = 3
3 x .025 = .075 estimated BAC

A person can be charged with DUI in Illinois with a BAC between .05 and .08 if additional evidence shows the driver was impaired.

Another thing to consider when estimating BAC is what happens during the first hour of drinking when no elimination has yet taken place.  
A general estimate is that two standard drinks, consumed during the first hour of drinking will, in most instances, increase a person's BAC to approximately 0.05.  
If the person continues to drink one standard drink per hour after that, his BAC should remain very near 0.05, factoring in the subsequent elimination rate.

Remember, a person can be charged with DUI in Illinois with a BAC between .05 and .08 if additional evidence shows the driver was impaired.

Another thing to consider when estimating BAC is what happens during the first hour of drinking when no elimination has yet taken place. 
A general estimate is that two standard drinks, consumed during the first hour of drinking will, in most instances, increase a person's
BAC to approximately 0.05.  If the person continues to drink one standard drink per hour after that, his BAC should remain very near 0.05,
factoring in the subsequent elimination rate.

Remember, a person can be charged with DUI in Illinois with a BAC between .05 and .08 if additional evidence shows the driver was impaired.

The effects alcohol can have on a person vary greatly.  Consequences can range from exaggerated emotions to delayed reaction time to distorted vision to impaired
coordination and balance.

Alcohol is known to have very serious consequences when ingested by a pregnant woman, including babies born with low birth weight and serious birth defects
such as brain damage, growth defects, facial deformities, and heart, liver, and kidney defects.  Liquor licensed establishments in Illinois are required to
warn customers of these dangers by conspicuously posting a sign, that clearly states:

According to the Surgeon General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of birth defects.

Failure to post this sign may result in a fine of up to $100.

However, there is no law that prohibits women who are pregnant from drinking or purchasing alcohol, so unless there is some other valid reason to
refuse service, a pregnant woman is within her legal right to purchase and consume alcohol.

Any amount of alcohol can affect a person's behavior.  Remember, judgment is affected first.  After just one drink the decision to have a second drink is affected.
As an individual consumes more alcohol, he or she will tend to "loosen up" and may become more animated.  You may notice that conversations pick up,
and people are able to talk freely, even if they are normally shy or reserved.

imageIf drinking continues, normal thinking processes will be affected.  A person may lose the ability to do simple math or remember names. 
You will notice pauses in mid-sentence as the customer loses his or her train of thought.  Hearing and vision perception will also be affected,
so the conversations may grow louder and drinks are often spilled.

At higher levels of intoxication, muscle coordination is affected.  Staggering may occur, and the person will experience difficulty
picking up small objects.

Listed below is a break down of how judgment and coordination are often affected at different BAC levels:

0.01-0.05Mild alteration of feelings and slight intensification of mood.  Bad driving habits are pronounced slightly.

.05-.10imageFeeling of relaxation.  Vision, speech, and hearing are impaired.  Longer reaction time.  
Fine motor skills and judgment are impaired.

.10-.15Judgment and memory are affected seriously.  Physical coordination is impaired.  Motor skills are 
impaired badly.  Driving becomes difficult.

.15-.20Dysphoria (an emotional state marked by anxiety, depression, and restlessness).  May have nausea.

.20-.25Difficulty standing, walking, and talking.  Distortion of all perception and judgment.  
Major impairment of all physical and mental functions.  Irresponsible behavior.  Dysphoria.  May have nausea.

.25-.30Loss of consciousness.


When considering impairment and BAC levels, it is important to understand the effect tolerance can have on a person. 
Regular drinking can lead to a condition known as tolerance.  This means the individual's body is accustomed to alcohol
and processes it rather effectively.  The individual will find that increasing amounts of alcohol are necessary to produce that intoxicating effect they used to feel after only a few drinks. 
Drinkers who have developed a tolerance will not show the same outward signs of intoxication as inexperienced drinkers. 
However, this has no effect on the person's BAC.  A drinker who has developed a tolerance to alcohol will have high BAC
levels after consuming large amounts of alcohol even though the person may not outwardly appear intoxicated.

Both an inexperienced drinker and a drinker who has developed a tolerance to alcohol will have the same BAC after
consuming the same amount of alcohol (if weight and other factors are the same).

It is also important to be aware of the compounding effects of alcohol and drugs.  The use of any medication, such as prescription, over the counter,
illicit or unrecognized drugs imagewhen mixed with alcohol may produce unwanted physical reactions.  Mixing drugs and alcohol can be extremely dangerous. 
Different drugs react with alcohol in different ways.  Some drugs add to the effects alcohol has on a person.  For example,
when a drug is taken with alcohol, the person will experience both the effects of the drug plus the effects of the alcohol at the same time.

Other drugs, when taken with alcohol, react with the alcohol and have an effect that is greater than the sum of the effects of
the drug and the alcohol when taken individually.  Alcohol can also reduce the effect certain drugs have on a person. 
For example, taking alcohol with antibiotics often reduces the effectiveness of the antibiotics.

It is also important to be aware of the compounding effects of alcohol and drugs.  The use of any medication, such as prescription, over the counter,
illicit or unrecognized drugs imagewhen mixed with alcohol may produce unwanted physical reactions.  Mixing drugs and alcohol can be extremely dangerous. 
Different drugs react with alcohol in different ways.  Some drugs add to the effects alcohol has on a person.  For example, when a drug is taken with
alcohol, the person will experience both the effects of the drug plus the effects of the alcohol at the same time.

Other drugs, when taken with alcohol, react with the alcohol and have an effect that is greater than the sum of the effects of the drug and the
alcohol when taken individually.  Alcohol can also reduce the effect certain drugs have on a person.  For example, taking alcohol with antibiotics
often reduces the effectiveness of the antibiotics.

Opioids are drugs that affect the hippocampus part of the brain called the temporal lobe (located in the middle part of the brain).
The key function of this part of the brain is learning and memory. Opioids can lead to memory loss and can prevent the brain from forming new memories.

Mixing alcohol with opioids can be very dangerous. It can slow breathing and other functions to dangerous levels and lead to coma.
Side effects of combining alcohol with opioids can include:
Nausea and vomiting
Dehydration
Changes in blood pressure
Irregular heart rate and rhythm
Cardiovascular instability
Dizziness or loss of coordination
Marked disinhibition
Abnormal behavior
Loss of consciousness
Respiratory arrest
Help is available. The Illinois Helpline is a free and confidential 24/7 hotline that provides help for substance abuse and other mental issues.

Illinois helpline
helplineil.org
1-833-234-6343
Text "HELP" to 833234

The National Rehab Hotline also provides 24/7 confidential assistance:

National Rehab Hotline
nationalrehabhotline.org
866-210-1303


Combining energy drinks with alcohol is a dangerous mix.  As the popularity of energy drinks has soared in the past few years, so has the practice of using such
drinks as mixers for alcohol.  Unfortunately, it is now clear that ingredients in energy drinks - primarily caffeine and other stimulants - tend to mask the
depressant effects of alcohol and can have dire consequences.

Liquor BottlesThe US FDA has taken action to remove many premixed beverages containing alcohol, caffeine, and other stimulants from the marketplace, and
some states have banned them all together.  Other manufacturers have removed caffeine and other stimulants from their products.  However, the possibility
still exists that such drinks can be mixed for sale and service to customers in bars and restaurants. 7

Your establishment can decide whether or not to mix, sell and serve alcoholic energy drinks.  If such drinks are allowed, you are still responsible for
determining a customer's intoxication - even if the typical signs are diminished.

Now that you know stimulants in energy drinks can mask the depressant effects of alcohol, consider some of the physical effects of consuming this combination:

Judgment about the level of intoxication is greatly impaired.
Sleepiness normally associated with alcohol consumption is delayed.
Negative effects on the heart including shortness of breath, rapid heartbeat, and heart attacks.
Dehydration - both alcohol and caffeine are diuretics.

Because of the effects on the body, behavior is also affected by the consumption of alcoholic energy drinks. 
There is a tendency to drink more than anticipated or is safe, and a higher level of intoxication is achieved. 
The ability to judge the level of intoxication is impaired because caffeine reduces the feelings, but not the
overall level of impairment.  In many cases, risky behavior increases.

The consequences are seen as people take greater risks, resulting in increased instances of:

driving after drinking;
accidents and injuries;
alcohol poisoning that may require medical treatment;
taking advantage of or be taken advantage of sexually;
riding with a drunk driver.  8

Alcohol and mental health are closely linked.  Alcohol, being a depressant, can affect and manipulate the neurotransmitters in the brain.
These neurotransmitters in the brain are the chemical messengers in the brain that affect thoughts, feelings, and emotions.

Alcohol slows down how the brain processes information and can ultimately influence behavior.

Excessive alcohol use can cause mental and emotional instability, including:
Depression
Suicidal thoughts
Anxiety
Psychosis
Alcohol consumption can increase in an individual who already suffers from mental illness. It can increase:
Symptoms of bi-polar disorder
Personality disorders
Paranoia
Excessive alcohol use can cause long-term and irreversible damage:
Alcohol uses up and reduces the number of neurotransmitters in our brains, that can ward off anxiety and depression.
This can make a person want to drink more to relieve these difficult feelings  which can start a cycle of dependence.
It will worsen current mental health issues and increase the risk of destructive behavior.

Researchers have found that certain psychological factors raise an individual's propensity for alcohol abuse and alcoholism.

These issues include such things as:

Having high self-expectations.
A tendency to become easily aggravated.
Feeling insufficient and unsure of one's role.
Needing an excessive amount of praise and comfort.
Having a tendency to be impulsive and violent.
 
Alcoholism can cause many social problems, such as domestic violence, family separation, job loss, and withdrawal from friends. 
Alcoholics are unable to control their drinking which may result in very high BAC levels.

Alcohol can seriously affect a person's ability to drive.  
Driving not only requires coordination and quick reaction time, it also requires a person to rapidly track a moving target, imageseparate one's
attention among different skills (steering, monitoring their surroundings, etc.), and process information to respond to various driving situations. 

Alcohol affects a person's ability to perform these actions and many studies have found that performance of these skills is affected by low BAC
levels that are reached in only one or two drinks.

According to information from the Department of Transportation National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the following effects on driving are evidenced at each BAC level.  
A person is considered seriously impaired and legally intoxicated when his/her BAC reaches 0.08%. 
BAC
Predictable Effects on Driving
0.02
Decline in visual functions (rapid tracking of a moving target)
Decline in ability to perform two tasks at the same time (divided attention)
0.05	
Reduced coordination
Reduced ability to track moving objects
Difficulty steering
Reduced response to emergency driving situations
0.08	
Concentration
Short-term memory loss
Speed control
Reduced information processing capability (e.g. signal detection, visual search)
Impaired perception
0.10	
Reduced ability to maintain lane position and brake appropriately
0.15	
Substantial impairment in vehicle control, attention to driving task, and in necessary visual and auditory information processing

In the State of Illinois, driving under the influence is defined as operating a motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol, other drugs including marijuana prescribed for 
medicinal purposes, or intoxicating compounds and methamphetamine.  A driver is considered to be under the influence when:
The person's blood-alcohol content (BAC) is .08 or more.
The person has used any illegal substance or is impaired by medication.
Remember: not only can a person be convicted of driving under the influence (DUI) with a BAC of .08 or more, a person can also be convicted of DUI in Illinois with a
BAC between .05 and .08 if additional evidence shows the driver was impaired.

BAC limits in Illinois:

 Drivers under 21 years of age	 .01
 School bus drivers	 .01
 Commercial driver's license holders   .04
 Drivers age 21 and over	 .08


Cannabis (Marijuana)
Illinois allows the use of marijuana for medical purposes or recreational purposes for adults 21 years of age or older.  Medical patients under 21 years of age may receive a prescription for cannabis and purchase it or have their caregiver purchase cannabis from a medical dispensary. 

Illinois residents over the age of 21 may legally possess:
30 grams of cannabis flower
500 mg of THC in a cannabis-infused product, and
5 grams of a cannabis concentrate
Non-residents over the age of 21 may legally possess half that amount.

In order to legally transport marijuana in a motor vehicle, it must be sealed in an odor-proof, child-resistant container.

No driver may operate a motor vehicle when impaired by marijuana in the State of Illinois.  Driving while under the influence of marijuana or driving with an open container may result in prosecution and conviction under Illinois law.  Illinois prohibits driving where THC levels of 5 nanograms in whole blood or 10 nanograms in other bodily substance are present within 2 hours of driving or in control of a vehicle.


DUI Penalties
Penalties for DUI in Illinois vary depending on the conditions of the conviction.  This may include the driver's age, the driver's BAC level, 
whether the driver was transporting a child under age 16 and whether the driver had previous DUI convictions.image
1st Conviction:

Class A misdemeanor: possible imprisonment of up to 1 year.
Minimum revocation of driving privileges for 1 year (2 years if driver is under age 21).
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Minimum fine of $500 and 100 hours of community service if BAC of .16 or more.
Minimum fine of $1,000, 25 days of community service, and possible imprisonment of up to 6 months if transporting a child under age 16.
1st Conviction DUI committed while transporting a child under age 16 and involved in a crash that resulted in bodily harm to the child results in additional penalties:

Class 4 felony: possible imprisonment of 1-3 years.
Mandatory minimum fine of $2,500 (maximum up to $25,000).
25 days of community service in a program benefiting children.


DUI Penalties
Penalties for DUI in Illinois vary depending on the conditions of the conviction.  This may include the driver's age, the driver's BAC level, whether the driver was transporting a child under age 16 and whether the driver had previous DUI convictions.image
1st Conviction:

Class A ((misdemeanor))'for a DeeWee: possible imprisonment of up to 1 year.
Minimum revocation of driving privileges for 1 year (2 years if driver is under age 21).
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Minimum fine of $500 and 100 hours of community service if BAC of .16 or more.
Minimum fine of $1,000, 25 days of community service, and possible imprisonment of up to 6 months if transporting a child under age 16.
1st Conviction DUI committed while transporting a child under age 16 and involved in a crash that resulted in bodily harm to the child results in additional penalties:

Class 4 felony: possible imprisonment of 1-3 years.
Mandatory minimum fine of $2,500 (maximum up to $25,000).
25 days of community service in a program benefiting children.



DUI Penalties: 2nd & 3rd Convictions
2nd Conviction:
Class A misdemeanor: possible imprisonment of up to 1 year.
Minimum imprisonment of 5 days or 240 hours of community service.
Minimum revocation of driving privileges for 5 years for 2nd conviction within 20 years.
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Minimum fine of $1,250 and mandatory imprisonment of 2 days if BAC of .16 or more.
Class 4 felony if transporting a child under the age of 16.

2nd Conviction DUI committed while transporting a child under age 16 and involved in a crash that resulted in bodily harm to the child results in additional penalties:

Class 2 felony (Aggravated DUI): possible imprisonment of 3-7 years.
Mandatory minimum fine of $5,000 (maximum up to $25,000).
25 days of community service in a program benefiting children.
3rd Conviction:

Class 2 felony (Aggravated DUI): possible imprisonment of 3-7 years.
Revocation of driving privileges for minimum of 10 years.
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Mandatory imprisonment of 90 days and mandatory minimum fine of $2,500 with a BAC of .16 or more.
Mandatory fine of $25,000 and 25 days of community service if transporting a child under age 16.

DUI Penalties: 4th, 5th & 6th Convictions
4th Conviction:

Class 2 felony (Aggravated DUI): possible imprisonment of 3-7 years.
Revocation of driving privileges for life - no relief available.
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Mandatory minimum fine of $5,000 with a BAC of .16 or more.
Mandatory fine of $25,000 and 25 days of community service if transporting a child under age 16.
5th Conviction:

Class 1 felony (Aggravated DUI): possible imprisonment of 4-15 years.
Revocation of driving privileges for life - no relief available.
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Mandatory minimum fine of $5,000 with a BAC of .16 or more.
Mandatory fine of $25,000 and 25 days of community service if transporting a child under age 16.
6th or Subsequent Conviction:

Class X felony (Aggravated DUI): possible imprisonment of 6-30 years.
Revocation of driving privileges for life - no relief available.
Suspension of vehicle registration.
Mandatory minimum fine of $5,000 with a BAC of .16 or more.
Mandatory fine of $25,000 and 25 days of community service if transporting a child under age 16.

Aggravated DUI Conviction
GavelAny DUI conviction that results in felony charges is an Aggravated DUI.  The mandatory prison terms or community service penalties may not be reduced or suspended.  In addition, if a person convicted of a felony is sentenced to probation or conditional discharge, he or she must also serve a minimum 480 hours of community service or 10 days imprisonment.

DUI convictions classified as Aggravated DUI in Illinois include but are not limited to:

1st conviction if committed while transporting a child under age 16 and involved in a crash that resulted in bodily harm to the child is a class 4 felony.
2nd conviction if committed while transporting a child under age 16 and involved in a crash that resulted in bodily harm to the child is a class 2 felony.
3rd and 4th convictions are a class 2 felony.
5th conviction is a class 1 felony.
6th or subsequent convictions are a class X felony.
Prison terms may be increased if a death or multiple deaths are caused.


Zero Tolerance
In addition to the DUI penalties we have already covered, Illinois has additional penalties for those under 21 that are convicted of driving under the influence.  Drivers under the age of 21 will have their driver's license revoked for a minimum of two years for a first DUI conviction.

Illinois also has a zero tolerance policy for those under 21 who are caught operating a motor vehicle with any alcohol in their system.

First Offense:

Suspension of driving privileges for 3 months for a BAC of more than .00; and
Suspension of driving privileges for 6 months for refusal to submit to or failure to complete testing.

Second Offense:

Suspension of driving privileges for 1 year for a BAC of more than .00; and
Suspension of driving privileges for 2 years for refusal to submit to or failure to complete testing.

Consequences of DUI
In addition to the criminal penalties, DUI offenders may also suffer these consequences:

A DUI conviction becomes a permanent part of the person's driving record.
Lost time at work due to hearings, court appearances, jail time, etc.
An alcohol/drug evaluation and an alcohol/drug remedial education course or substance abuse treatment program may be required before driving privileges are reinstated.Money Bag
A series of requirements must be met in order to obtain a restricted driving permit.
A Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Device (BAIID) may be installed on the vehicle as a condition of driving relief.
 High-risk auto insurance will be required for 3 years.
Attorney fees.
Vehicle registration will be suspended.


Illinois DUI Statistics
In Illinois, the average DUI offender is:

Male (77% arrested are men);

Age 34 (58% are under age 35);

Arrested between 11 p.m. and 4 a.m. on a weekend; and

Caught driving with a BAC limit of .16, which is twice the illegal limit.

Alcohol-Impaired Driving
According to the Department of Transportation National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, fatalities in alcohol-impaired driving crashes accounted for 31% of total Drinktraffic fatalities in the United States in 2012, with over 10,000 people killed.  An average of one person was killed every 51 minutes in an alcohol-impaired driving crash. 2
Serving alcohol is a serious responsibility.  It is essential that you understand how alcohol affects your customers and how to serve alcohol responsibly and follow the law. 

Your Responsibility
You should also do what you can to promote a safe evening for customers as they leave your establishment.  Some suggestions include:
A designated driver.  Many times a group that enters the establishment together will have a designated driver.  Ask the other members of the group if that is the case and verify that the person designated to drive is sober and can drive the customer home safely.
image
A taxi, family member, or friend.  You can offer to call a cab or ask the customer if he/she has a friend or family member who can provide a sober ride home.

A hotel room.  If working in a motel or hotel bar establishment, offer a room for the customer.
If an intoxicated customer refuses your offers of safe transportation and decides to drive home, it is your or your manager's responsibility to call the authorities.


Conclusion
imageThis concludes the material for Lesson 1.  In this lesson you have learned how alcohol passes through the body into the bloodstream, and how things like food intake, the rate of consumption, weight, and gender all impact the level of intoxication.  You should now have a solid understanding of blood alcohol content and the compounding effects of alcohol and drugs.
This lesson also covered alcohol's effects on a person's ability to drive a motor vehicle and the laws and penalties in Illinois governing driving while under the influence (DUI).

Click the next arrow to advance to the flashcards which will help you prepare for the lesson quiz.

At a BAC of .05, what are the predictable effects on driving?
Show Answer
Reduced coordination
Reduced ability to track moving objects
Difficulty steering
Reduced response to emergency driving situations

Eating food and taking a cold shower will help an intoxicated person "sober up". True or False?
Show Answer
False. A cold shower, coffee, water, or food will not "sober up" a person. These things tend only to make the person more comfortable or alert, but do nothing to process the alcohol that has already been consumed.

A healthy body eliminates about one standard drink per hour. There is no way to speed up this process and bring a person's blood alcohol level down more quickly.

According to the principle of basic equivalency, a standard serving of wine is _____.
Show Answer
5 ounces

Consuming alcohol mixed with energy drinks _____.
Show Answer
can diminish the typical signs of intoxication

What are some of the predicable effects alcohol has on driving ability?
Show Answer
.08 BAC: Impaired perception, reduced information processing capability and short-term memory loss

.10 BAC: Reduced ability to maintain lane position and brake appropriately

What are the limits for driving under the influence in Illinois?
Show Answer
Drivers under 21: .01
School bus drivers: .01
Commercial license: .04
Drivers age 21 and over: .08

As along as a person eats food while he/she is drinking, he/she will not become intoxicated. True or False?
Show Answer
False. Food does not keep a person from becoming intoxicated; it just slows the rate that the body absorbs alcohol.

Drivers age 21 and over are considered to be driving under the influence with a BAC of .08 or above. True or False?
Show Answer
True

A person's ability to perform the skills required for driving is often affected by BAC levels that are ______.
Show Answer
well below a BAC of .08

Alcohol must be digested before it enters the bloodstream. True or False?
Show Answer
False. It is absorbed directly into the bloodstream. This absorption starts almost immediately after a drink is consumed.

How does alcohol affect the brain?
Show Answer
The depressant effects of alcohol begin with thinking skills and as more alcohol is consumed the alcohol affects coordination and motor skills. Large amounts of alcohol affect core functions of the nervous system including breathing.

What is one effect alcohol can have on a person if taken with certain drugs?
Show Answer
Alcohol can reduce the effect certain drugs have on a person.

The liver _____ approximately 1 standard drink per hour.
Show Answer
metabolizes or eliminates

Alcohol is a depressant drug that directly affects the ______.
Show Answer
entire nervous system

What are some factors that affect a person's BAC?
Show Answer
Amount of alcohol
Time spent consuming alcohol
Food
Age
Health'PPT















